Connector/Net 5.0.0.0  Release Notes
------------------------------------

Welcome to the release notes for Connector/Net 5.0.  As the old saying goes, 
I've got some good news and I've got some bad news.

First the good news
-------------------
We are finally releasing a build of Connector/Net 5.0.  This version of the connector
incorporates many changes to its internal structure that will provide both increased
speed and flexibility.  Speed is increased by allowing column values to be processed
without ever being boxed (if you use MySqlDataReader) and flexibility is increased
by virtualizing the execution engine.  This virtualization will allow future versions
of the Connector to support the embedded server and to use the client library.

Many more features have been added to this version including Usage Advisor, PerfMon hooks,
asynchronous queries, and full ADO.net 2.0 support.

Now the bad news
----------------
This is an alpha release and, as such, some things are just broken.  Rather than hold
the release until all these things were working, we decided to release so we can be 
gathering feedback while the rest of the features are fixed.  Below you will find a 
list of the features we know do not work in this release.

* load data local infile
* using the compression protocol
* shared memory protocol

.NET 1.0 and 1.1 binaries not included
--------------------------------------
This release only ships with a .NET 2.0 compiled binary.  The reason for this is because
most of the core classes in the provider now derive from base classes provided by .NET 2.0. 
These include classes like DbCommand, DbConnection, etc.  In order to ship binaries for
.NET 1.0 and 1.1 using this code base, we would need to build our own set of base classes that
mirror what the .NET 2.0 base classes are doing.  We are working on this but those classes are
not done yet.  Again, rather than wait for those classes to be finished we decided to release
what we have and start gathering feedback.  

Mono support
------------
We are currently evaluating Mono support for ADO.Net 2.0 and will be including Mono support,
if possible, in the next beta release.

Functionality changes
---------------------
There are a number of functionality changes in this release compared to the 1.0 line.  Those
have been documented in the help file but we'll make a brief note about them here.

* We no longer support having both a stored procedure and a stored function with the same
  name in the same database.  MySQL supports this but the connector does not.  If you attempt
  to call a stored procedure or stored function while a stored routine of the same name
  exists in that database, a MySqlException will be raised.
  
* Some of the type safe methods on MySqlDataReader such as GetString() will now 
  throw an exception if you call them on a null column.  You should use IsNull to check for
  a column's nullness.
  
* MySqlCommandBuilder no longer has constructors for specifying 'last one wins' type of conflict
  resolution.  You should use the ConflictOption property to specify this.
  
* MySqlCommandBuilder also no longer includes a select statement on the end of the update
  statement to refresh the dataset or datatable after an update.  If you have server generated
  values and you need to retrieve them, you can either handcraft the update statement or
  refill your table or dataset.
  
  
Things that are missing or incomplete
-------------------------------------
* CommandTimeout support - We are going to support CommandTimeout in 5.0 but it is not active in this 
                           release.
* System.Transaction support - We are examining what needs to be done in this area and will have a more
                               complete answer with beta 1.
* Documentation - Past versions of the provider have used NDoc to generate documentation.  Now that NDoc
                  is no longer being developed, we will be changing to a different system.  This change
                  has not been made yet.  As a result, the help file that ships with this release does not
                  properly link to framework help topics.
                  
                  We are committed to providing and integrating our help into the Visual Studio help collections
                  as well as providing documentation for those people not using Visual Studio.                                                          